# Regen Data Standards

This repository contains data standards for Regen Network.

## Taxonomies

Taxonomy cards are intended to provide a high-level sense of a project’s activities, environment, and impact. The labels and associated definitions and icons convey a general idea rather than provide an analytical understanding. For more details about a project’s activities, environment, and impact, it will be necessary to read the relevant project documentation.

Taxonomies can be managed in the following directories dedicated to the three taxonomy card types:
* Impacts: [/src/content/impact](./src/content/impact)
* Activities: [/src/content/activity](./src/content/activity)
* Environment Type: [/src/content/environment-type](./src/content/environment-type)

Each taxonomy card type can have hierarchical relationships, which will be useful when selecting, searching, and grouping terms on the web page. Below is an example. For example, if the top level of the hierarchy is “Marine,” and sub-categories under that are "Coastal", "Coral Reef", and "Deep Water". The terms for each of those levels needs a definition.

In the above example, the Marine.md file would go into the “environment-type” directory (/src/content/environment-type/Marine.md) and the CoralReef.md file would go in the “Marine” directory (/src/content/environment-type/Marine/CoralReef.md)

To add new elements to the taxonomy please follow the example files in the respective directories
making sure that each element has a `title` and icon `image` and some descriptive text written in [Markdown](https://www.markdownguide.org).
For example for a new impact called "My Impact", you would create a file called `MyImpact.md` in the `/src/content/impact` directory with the following content:

```markdown
---
title: My Impact
image: ./myimpact.svg
---

Write the description of the element here. You can use Markdown formatting if you like
```

Make sure the icon image file `myimpact.svg` is in the same directory as the `MyImpact.md` file.

### Taxonomy Home Pages
Each taxonomy has a home page which describes that taxonomy and guidelines for updating it. A list of those taxonomies will be autogenerated. These pages are located at:

* Impacts: [/src/pages/impact/index.mdx](./src/pages/impact/index.mdx)
* Activities: [/src/pages/activity/index.mdx](./src/pages/activity/index.mdx)
* Environment Type: [/src/pages/environment-type/index.mdx](./src/pages/environment-type/index.mdx)

### Process for submitting new terms 
When the current set of terms does not meet the needs of new methods,  protocols, or projects, the following process will be used to add terms to this taxonomy archive. 

To propose a new term, the proposer will complete a [New Taxonomy Term Proposal form](https://airtable.com/appzrw40tJdLBM2RS/shrssvqyirhVLP7bz). New term proposals must include the new term, its definition, an icon, the taxonomic group (Activities, Impact, Environment Type), and a brief justification for adding the new term. Content from the form will be evaluated by a Regen Registry staff member and if the information is complete and it conforms to the taxonomy standards the staff member will initiate the approval process of adding the new term, definition and icon  creating a pull request on this repository. 

We are using GitHub as the governance platform to approve new taxonomy components. The person submitting the pull request will select at least two people from a pool of approvers who can approve merging taxonomy components into the repository by suggesting changes and then accepting proposed additions using pull requests. The approvers are accountable for adding new terms and are encouraged to follow a due diligence process and, when necessary, solicit comments from other people, inside and outside of Regen Network, before approving a pull request.
